Add ChatEventHandler docs (#4016)
GetStream/stream-chat-android: docusaurus/docs/Android/02-client/06-guides/03-channel-list-updates.mdx

# Channel List Updates

> The `ChannelList` component is being updated based on the data from two sources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We update the `ChannelList` and `ChannelListView` components based on data from two sources:
```

Reviewer: I think we want to refer to both compose and XML? Unless we can just say ChannelList

Reviewer: I would add full stops `.` at the end of each bullet item here, as these seem like finished statements and examples.

I think we could do it for other bulleted lists too, unless we're just listing out items, e.g.

* ChannelList
* MessageList
* AttachmentsPicker

This would go w/o a full stop, as it's not a statement that can finish, but in these cases we're listing out and describing sth, so it might look like we have an unfinished sentence otherwise!

LMK what you think :D

Author: 1. For some reason I thought we have the same names in both. Makes sense
2. Good idea!

- Query channels request, with given filter and query sort, when the component is initialized
- Channel-related events that come from the `WebSocket` when the socket is connected

Unlike query channel requests, where you can filter particular channels, channel-related events are not being filtered and need additional attention to handle the list updates correctly.

> By default, the SDK updates the list based on membership - the channel will be added if the currentUser is a member and will be removed otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the SDK updates the list based on membership - the channel will be added if the `currentUser` is a member and will be removed otherwise.
```

## Custom ChatEventHandler

> The default event handling logic might not fit into your use case and you can spot that `ChannelListView` is not updated properly.  This means you should provide a custom `ChatEventHandler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default event handling logic might not fit into your use case and you can spot that `ChannelListView` is not updated properly. This means you should provide a custom `ChatEventHandler`.
```

You can choose between overriding:
- `DefaultChatEventHandler` - when you need to extend member-based behavior by adding additional logic
- `BaseChatEventHandler` - when you need to support different use cases, for example, non-member based but still a separation between `CidEvent` and `HasChannel` events is useful
- `ChatEventHandler` - if you want to have full control over events' types

In each case, you need to decide what to do with the particular event by returning `EventHandlingResult` that matches an action.
You can find more details about the result class [here](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-android/blob/develop/stream-chat-android-state/src/main/java/io/getstream/chat/android/offline/event/handler/chat/ChatEventHandler.kt#L57).

:::note

> The `ChatEventHandler` is being provided by `ChatEventHandlerFactory` which gives you access to the visible channels map. By using the map, you can skip unwanted channel list updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ChatEventHandlerFactory` provides a `ChatEventHandler`, which gives you access to the visible channels map. By using the map, you can skip unwanted channel list updates.
```

:::

Both XML and Compose `ChannelListViewModel` and `ChannelListViewModelFactory` allow you to pass `chatEventHandlerFactory` via constructor.

> Alternatively, you can pass custom handler to `ChatClient::queryChannelsAsState` function, if you are not using UI SDKs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can pass a custom handler to `ChatClient::queryChannelsAsState` function calls, if you are not using our UI SDKs.
```

## Multiple ChannelListView

> If your application contains more than one `ChannelListView`, each of them should implement its own, custom `ChatEventHandler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application contains more than one `ChannelListView`, each of them should implement its own, custom,  `ChatEventHandler`.
```

Let's say we want to have two `ChannelListView`:

> - First one displaying `public` channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The first displays `public` channels
```

> - Second one for displaying `private` ones

Reviewer: we don't need full stops at the end here, because we're giving out examples, not statements

> - Second one for displaying `private` ones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The second displays `private` channels
```

Both channel types require a user to be a member to interact with the channel

As mentioned above, by default, channel-related events are not filtered, so if you would use the default `ChatEventHandler`, both lists would be updated regardless of the event's channel type.

You can fix that by providing two different event handlers.

> The first one is going to handle `public` channels updates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first one is going to handle `public` channel updates:
```

        // If the channel event matches "private" type, handle it
        return if (event.channel.cid.startsWith("private")) {
            super.handleChannelEvent(event, filter)
        } else {
            // Otherwise skip
            EventHandlingResult.Skip
        }
    }

    override fun handleCidEvent(
        event: CidEvent,
        filter: FilterObject,
        cachedChannel: Channel?,
    ): EventHandlingResult {
        // If the cid event matches "private" type, handle it
        return if (event.cid.startsWith("private")) {
            super.handleCidEvent(event, filter, cachedChannel)
        } else {
            // Otherwise skip
            EventHandlingResult.Skip
        }
    }
}

class PrivateChatEventHandlerFactory : ChatEventHandlerFactory() {
    override fun chatEventHandler(channels: StateFlow<Map<String, Channel>?>): ChatEventHandler {
        return PrivateChatEventHandler(channels, ChatClient.instance().clientState)
    }
}
```

After that, we just need to apply the handlers to the proper `ChannelListViewModel`:

```kotlin
val factory = ChannelListViewModelFactory(chatEventHandlerFactory = chatEventHandlerFactory)

> ```

Reviewer: I would add some extra explanation at the bottom - it's usually always good to have a "where to go from here" or "what to do next" or "let's dive deeper" sections.

You can say something like:

"With this approach, you can make sure each list in your app only receives and handles the events it should be aware of. The `public` channel list will ignore `private` channel events and vice-versa.

You can use this for many different use cases, like handling different channel categories, groups, or custom types of metadata that describe your channels."

Author: good idea
